All right, next up,
we're going to get out our editors or
IDEs and we're gonna tackle
another typing challenge, and
we're going to invent jQuery.
So for those of you who don't have context
about what jQuery is, because it's
sort of not a main focus of buzz in
the web development community anymore.
This was a very important library that was
built at a time where the DOM APIs and
even things you could expect in
the JavaScript runtime in a browser,
they were fairly inconsistent.
Even just the way that you would add
an event listener to see if a button was
clickediIn early versions of Internet
Explorer, you would do that differently
than in Chrome, or at least there would
be certain paths that were buggy.
And jQuery, that was one of the first
things that gave us a consistent
thing to code against,
consistent abstraction to build on top of,
to build more interesting
code that ran in the web,
written in one way that works
across a wide range of browsers.
So we are going to write something
that looks like the jQuery API,
but uses the DOM API
that we now have under
the hood to do all of the stuff
that things are intended to do.
So, what I've done here and
slightly altered is the code snippets,
I've taken the code
snippets from jquery.com.
This is sort of their very quick and
dirty getting started thing, right?
Where we grab a button and
we set its label to next step,
dot, dot, dot, and
we can handle an event, right?
Like when a button is clicked,
show a hidden box.
And down here we have Ajax.
This was super important at the time.
Before that you had to do, what I would
say are some unreasonable backflips
to send asynchronous to make API calls,
right, without fully reloading your page.
So three really Important use cases,
we have slightly altered equivalents down
here, I've just simplified them slightly.
And your job is to make some code that
allows a snippet like this to run.
So it's in the same workshop
project you have checked out.
It's in that challenges folder,
we're calling this jquery-clone.
And the entry point is within that folder,
there's a source folder and
index.ts, all of your work
should be in that file.
So, some hints.
First, you're gonna want to use fetch,
and please feel free to ping me or
raise your hand if you don't
know how to use fetch, but
this is gonna be important in terms of
making that Ajax thing work, $.ajax.
And then second,
remember how declaration merging works.
So, in this case, you may notice that
jQuery is sometimes a function, right?
This is a function invocation here,
the function is just called $.
And sometimes jQuery has
these things hanging off it,
like Ajax, and those are functions.
So in order to get sort of like a function
with extra things dangling off of it, in
order to define the types for that, we can
create a namespace and a function type.
And they sort of ride on top of each
other through declaration merging, and
we can export that one thing.
So if you've ever wondered,
why does this namespace thing exist?
Why is declaration merging so important?
A key thing about TypeScript is, we have
to be able to write types that describe
a whole variety of different kinds
of JavaScript code like this, right?
There's still jQuery being written
out in the world with types,
we need an ability to describe that.
So that's why if you've ever wondered,
why would I stack things on
top of each other like this?
This is a perfectly valid use case a very,
very popular library, even now.
So there are tests, you can run Yarn
tests within that jquery-clone folder and
you should see some feedback.